---
title: gSchool - Weed 3
date: 2013-10-04 15:12 UTC
tags:
---

Although I missed a blog post from last week due to the Rocky Mountain Ruby Conference, I still feel great about the challenges and progress that have happened day to day. Overall, I love the level of difficulty still, where it seems like there is a positive relationship between effort and results. In no way has the SalesEngine project been easy, or even something I could have done on my own, but every step of the way I have been learning more and more, and I feel better prepared for future projects. 

Working in a three person group was great. Occasionally the dynamic between two people can be scewed by each thinking their idea is correct, or using the "yes, but..." saying to attempt to move on past a current strategy or idea. However, adding a third voice to this dynamic diffuses any potential buildup of this, and allows for more of a discussion. Progress for the week was somewhat of a roller coaster, in that some aspects of the project came easier than others, and some felt like hitting a brick wall (only to eventually get the result we wanted). But, having the group atmosphere allowed us to not get frustrated and to keep a positive outlook for the work ahead.

It seems like the past month has absolutely flown by, possibly because we haven't really had a moment to catch our breath, and have barrelled through new material. I am amazed at what I feel I know now vs what I began the program with, and I feel very grateful for how these weeks have been structured. The sink or swim attitude has helped to push me, keep me focused and drive me to learn as much as I can. Although I can't build the programs I want to (yet) I am excited to get closer and closer to that goal over the next months. 

I can't even fathom how I will feel in 5 months when the program is done. Most likely, I'll just want to sleep... Rather than thinking about what I will know, it's better for me to get excited for coming up with things that I want to be able to do, and making sure that I include those skills in the weekly lessons (but I assume that they will already cover pretty much everything I want to learn). It's amazing to feel proud of the work put in, and to be a part of an amazing group of people. They truly are what allows the program to succeed, and I've learned as much about how to work collaboratively as I have programming. It's also a wonderful feeling to be able to know how to ask questions, where three weeks ago I couldn't even figure that out.

For learning, I've wanted to push myself. This includes a lot of asking questions, but mostly forcing myself to join discussion groups of more seasoned programmers. I know that I need a strong foundation of basics to do anything in this field, but I feel incredibly confident with where I am at, and where I will be. I don't just want to know that it's possible to do something, or even how to do it one way. I have tried to figure out on my own how to solve problems, but I always push myself to find better and better ways. Knowing one way to do anything is not enough for me in this program. I know there is so much to learn from everyone around me, and especially the instructors, and I plan to keep myself involved to learn, learn and learn some more.
